yesterday I took these guys on a
cultural discovery I have been fasting
for Ramadan for the past month which
means that I'm not supposed to eat or
drink anything including water for the
entire time the Sun is up which is a
total of 16 hours in montreal times that
means from 3:30 a.m. to about 8:45 p.m.
Matt Thomas and Darren had never fasted
in their lives and did not really
understand it so yesterday I decided to
give them a glimpse into my world
educate them about the Ramadan tradition
and hopefully teach him a thing or two
here is our story we started the day
extremely tired from the night before
where we had tried to sleep outside but
barely got any sleep Thomas was missing
his daily four cups of coffee coffee and
Matt was missing well breakfast Matt
loves breakfast I was and I already
suffering and we've been up for about an
hour and a half we're pathetic we had a
slow morning and in the afternoon I took
Matt and Thomas to a mosque for the
first time in their lives to give them a
proper Ramadan experience oh yeah I'm
excited to do this with you boys it's a
it's a great thing to share you know
that part of my identity with you guys
this is the one that we when we were
like we're eating last night we stopped
eating sunsets it's supposed sunset yes
we were all very well received and even
invited to iftar afterwards an F dar is
the new break our fasting at sunset but
we ended up eating a home after all
because Thomas needed some time to edit
so we went food shopping where I forgot
my credit card when we got home Thomas
had five more hours of editing ahead of
him with no sleep no food and no water
this happened
those are times to be a whole baby all
right you guys head it up
fine I'm so tired sorry just feel like
I'm really tired and like I have two
hours to finish this he hit an absolute
low on energy but mad Darrin of myself
picked him up if you want to break the
fastest it's all good
if you can't go through but Ramadan is
all about just being conscious of your
dependencies and it's up to you do
what's best for you and for the for the
project and we are fasting anyways it'll
be fine for now did you break the fast
did I break the fast yeah you don't you
made it through so far I'm gonna edit
and I'm going to do it he powers through
didn't break the fast and finish the
editing on time and five minutes away
from sunset Matt Thomas got a little
crazy we're good okay so right now we're
just gonna break the fast just like how
I do it and how my family do and how
we've been doing it for but like a
thousand four hundred years which is
breaking your fast on a date so this is
what year this is when you take this
I said listen Allah just below
oh you're smashing through the camera -
fasting sorry they're jealous thank you
the point of Ramadan is not to starve
yourself instead it's to break bad
habits cultivate self-control and have
empathy for people who is not as
fortunate as us to have access to food
and water at all the times fasting for
Ramadan also implies no complaining no
drinking no smoking no lying no swearing
and no fighting we've seen amar do this
for the past month and we wanted to show
solidarity with our friend and do
exactly what this show is all about try
things we have never done before I think
the day we also became more mindful
about our dependencies and unfortunately
noticed how much we swear surprisingly
the most fulfilling part of the day was
not when we actually broke the fast but
the 10 minutes beforehand when we
realized how lucky we were to actually
have access to all this food and water
at the end of the day
see you tomorrow
Salaam aleikum